Plymouth


How to prepare for
your O-1A Consular
interview
Our step-by-step guide with tips on giving a
successful interview
PREPARING FOR YOUR O-1 VISA OVERVIEW                                                                1




What’s next?
You have just received the life-changing news that your O1-A visa application has

been approved! Congratulations—this a massive accomplishment.




Schedule your visa appointment
One final task will unlock your journey: schedule your visa appointment, which will

include fingerprinting, photographs, and an interview. This appointment, conducted

at U.S. embassies and consulates worldwide, is your last step in demonstrating your

eligibility for the O1-A Visa criteria.


Here, we'll show you how to book your visa appointment without stress.




Prepare for your Visa Appointment

Preparation is the most important part of a successful visa appointment. The
scheduling process may vary slightly depending on where you currently live, but

these steps outline the general process.




Gather your documents

Collect printed copies, not originals, of all the necessary documents and consolidate

them into a folder:




   L) VALID PASSPORT                                 L] VISA APPROVAL NOTICE
    No need to bring any of your expired             Form 1-797

    passports.



   (J)   DS-160 CONFIRMATION PAGE                    (J)   PASSPORT PHOTOS
   You will secure this when you make your           Taken within the last 6 months.

    appointment.



   L) ANY ADDITIONAL DOCUMENTS
   As requested by the U.S. embassy or

    consulate




You may also benefit from bringing along a second folder of extra materials—see Interview Tip #4.
PREPARING FOR YOUR O-1 VISA OVERVIEW




Make the appointment online

L)   Visit the Official U.S. Visa Information and Appointment Services webpage
     for your country.


     Most countries have an official US Consulate website with its own webpage for
     visa appointment scheduling that ends in .usembassy.gov. Find yours here.


     For example, if you're applying in Australia, visit the U.S. Visa Information and

     Appointment Services website for Australia.



L)   Create or log into your account and confirm your profile.

     Create an account or log in if you have an existing one.


     Double-check every input that you’ve provided accurate contact and profile
     information since this will be used for all communications regarding your

     appointment. You don’t want to miss important communications because you

     misspelled your email address.



()   Complete the DS-160 Form and print it.

     If you haven't already, fill out the DS-160 form, save the confirmation page, and

     print it. This form gathers your personal information and trip details to the USA.

     Information from this completed form will be required during the appointment

     scheduling process.



L)   Pay your visa application fee.

     Complete payment for the visa application fee through your account. Keep the

     payment receipt for scheduling and as proof for your interview.



Schedule your appointment

Follow the instructions on the website to schedule your visa appointment. You'll

need to enter the barcode from your DS-160 confirmation page and the receipt
number from your fee payment.



Select the U.S. embassy or consulate where you want to have your interview,

choose a date and time that works for you, and confirm your appointment.
PREPARING FOR YOUR O-1 VISA OVERVIEW




Tips for a successful interview
At your visa appointment, you be required to present your documents and respond

to questions regarding your O1-A Visa application. Here are some tips for crushing

the interview.



ds   Dress professionally. This makes a good impression while helping the consular

     officer visualize your professionalism and respect for the process.



     Arrive an hour early. Arriving late can negatively impact your interview

     outcome, so an hour in advance of your appointment time gives you wiggle

     room for traffic, public transit mishaps, or other events that could stand in the

     way of making it on time.


     Review your own information while you wait. Before the interview, revisit your

     visa application and the information provided in your DS-160 form. Being
     familiar with all the details of your application can help you answer questions

     confidently.


     Be transparent. Provide an honest and direct answer to each of the consular

     officer's questions. This means that if you're unsure about something, it's totally

     fine to admit it.
")




     Equip yourself with evidence. If you have additional documents such as letters
 ’




     of recommendation, awards, or publications, bring copies of them along ina
     second folder to strengthen your application.


     Prepare for questions. By practicing with the example questions included here,
     you can be ready for questions about your qualifications and the significance of
     your work to your field. This is the time to showcase how and why you go above

     and beyond in your industry—and why you deserve a chance to showcase your

     skills in the United States.



     Keep calm and be kind. Projecting confidence can be difficult if you’re not
     feeling confident, but acting and speaking kindly can help you appear calm and

     composed, professional, and emotionally intelligent during your interview. Good

     rapport may make your interviewer more inclined to offer constructive feedback

     if your candidacy is unsuccessful, but your kindness should always be sincere.
PREPARING FOR YOUR O-1 VISA OVERVIEW




Practice questions
  . Whois your sponsor or employer in the U.S.?


  . Inwhich field have you received national or international acclaim? Please

   explain.



  . What prizes or recognition have you received for your contribution to your field?

   Please explain.


  . Are you a member in any associations that require outstanding achievements of

   their members in your field of expertise?


  . Have you been the subject of any published material in professional or major

   trade publications or major media regarding you and your work? Please explain.


  . Have you authored any scholarly articles in professional journals or major

   media?



  . What significant contributions have you made to your field of expertise? Please

   explain.



  . Do you receive or have you received a high salary for your services? Please
   explain.


  . Please provide any other details that shows why you have “extraordinary ability”

   in your field.


10. How did you apply for this job?



11. Where will you be working? (City and state.)



12. When will you start working? (Choosea date.)



13. What is your age?



14. Whatis your marital status?



15. Whatis your nationality?



16. Have you ever traveled internationally? If yes, which countries have you visited?
PREPARING FOR YOUR O-1 VISA OVERVIEW




17. Where will you be applying for your visa? (Please specify country and embassy/

    consulate.)


18. Have you ever been denied a visa? (This should be no.)



19. Please give a brief summary of what happened at your previous visa interview.

    (This should not apply.)



20. Who is your sponsor or employer in the U.S.?



21. Are you currently employed? (This should be yes.)



22. Whatis your title and position?



23. How long have you been working at your current job?



24. Whatis your salary?



25. What is your highest level of education?



26. Do you have any family in the U.S.? If yes, please explain their current

    immigration status in the U.S.



27. Has anyone ever petitioned for an immigrant visa on your behalf? (Should be no.)



28. Are you traveling with anyone else? If yes, who else and whatis your relationship

   with them?



29. What are the dates you plan to travel to the U.S.?



30. What is your port of entry into the U.S.?



31. Do you have any criminal history? (This should be no.)



32. Are you on social media? (This should be yes.)



33. Whatis your salary?
PREPARING FOR YOUR O-1 VISA OVERVIEW                                                    6




After your visa appointment
Following your interview, the consular officer will provide you with the outcome. If

your visa is approved, congratulations! You'll receive a visa stamp on your passport,

granting you legal entry to the United States.



If, however, your visa application is denied, don't lose hope! Keep in mind that many

applicants make multiple attempts to secure the O-1A Visa, and the best thing you

can do is learn how you can strengthen your case for future attempts: Politely ask
about the reason for the denial and, where possible, address the issues before

reapplying.


Contact us to learn more about how we can help you see this process through.
